# Breast-Cancer Tumor Classification 

This study leverages the pre-trained ResNet50 and VGG19 models for detecting breast cancer in histopathological images from the BreakHis dataset. Unlike previous research that often separated images by magnification for classification, this study bridges this gap by constructing models for magnification-independent multi-tumor-type classification. The established transfer learning-based deep learning models are not susceptible to variations in magnification factors. The Z-score image normalization played a key role in differentiating our approach from prior research, reducing color and brightness variation, and improving deep learning model performance.  The results demonstrate that ResNet50 is a well-fitted model, with training loss and validation loss in proximity throughout the training process, even without data augmentation. ResNet50 achieved exceptional high accuracies of 99.03%, 93.97% and 94.73% for binary and multi-classification before and after augmentation, respectively. Data augmentation is beneficial in addressing the slight overfitting issue in VGG19, narrowing the gap between validation loss and training loss. VGG19 achieved accuracies of 96.59%, 88.33% and 92.50% for binary and multi-classification before and after augmentation, respectively. The proposed frameworks demonstrate high success in early breast cancer detection and eight-tumor-type classification, with better accuracy than other existing magnification-independent breast cancer classifier.
